readme.md, before:

# A library to code in C or ASM for the Nintendo SNES #

[PVSneslib V4.0.2 (February,02,2023) ](http://www.portabledev.com/jeux/supernes/pvsneslib/)

**PVSnesLib** (**P**rogrammer **V**aluable **Snes** **Lib**rary) is an open and free library to develop programs for the Nintendo SNES using the C programming language.

Created initially for the 20th birthday of the Nintendo SNES (2012) and based on Ulrich Hecht [SDK](http://code.google.com/p/snes-sdk/), it has been evolved a lot and is now mainly coded in assembler for performances reasons. It is also directly usable in asm for those who do not want to use C language but without rewriting everything from scratch.

It contains a snes-sdk compiler / linker and a library (sources included) which offer facilities to use backgrounds / sprites / pads / music & sound on the Nintendo SNES system.
It also contains examples which demonstrate how to use the functions in the library.

# Installation #
<a href="https://github.com/alekmaul/pvsneslib/releases/download/4.0.2/Windows-x32-402-release.zip"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/release-windows32-green?style=flat&logo=github" alt="PVSNESLIB Windows32 Release"></a>
<a href="https://github.com/alekmaul/pvsneslib/releases/download/4.0.2/Linux-x64-402-release.zip"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/release-linux-orange?style=flat&logo=github" alt="PVSNESLIB Linux32 Release"></a>

To install the library, please download the latest [release](https://github.com/alekmaul/pvsneslib/releases/latest) or with the link below and follow instructions on the [Wiki pages](https://github.com/alekmaul/pvsneslib/wiki).

You can also see the [documentation](https://alekmaul.github.io/pvsneslib/) generated from sources.

# Visual Studio Code #

You can find a Visual Studio Code template in the [vscode-template](https://github.com/alekmaul/pvsneslib/tree/master/vscode-template) folder to help PVSnesLib integration with it.

# Build status #

[![PVSNESLIB Build and Package](https://github.com/alekmaul/pvsneslib/actions/workflows/pvsneslib_build_package.yml/badge.svg?branch=develop)](https://github.com/alekmaul/pvsneslib/actions/workflows/pvsneslib_build_package.yml)

You can find with the link below the last stable builds of PVSnesLib. They are development builds, you can have bugs not yet resolved with them.

# Dependencies #

PVSnesLib works on Windows and Linux systems.
Due to technical constraints, it is available for now on 32 bits system only.

To use it, you will need at least :

- a unix-like environment like msys if you work on Windows
- python 3 installed and available in your path environment variable (accessible with the **python** command)

If you want to compile the whole project, please see [this wiki page](https://github.com/alekmaul/pvsneslib/wiki/Compiling-from-sources) to get all required dependencies.

# Contribution #

[GitHub project](https://github.com/alekmaul/pvsneslib)

To discuss about the library, your project or to request help, join us on [Discord](https://discord.gg/DzEFnhB).

PVSneslib and affiliated tools are distributed under the MIT license (see pvsneslib_license.txt file).

# Support PVSneslib #

PVSneslib is free but you can donate to support its development:<br>
[![Paypal](https://www.paypalobjects.com/fr_FR/FR/i/btn/x-click-but04.gif)](https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&hosted_button_id=Y5USKF23DQVLC)

# Powered by PVSneslib #

These projects are based on PVSnesLib _(non-exhaustive list)_:

![alt text](pvsneslib/docs/images/yoyoshuriken.gif)

Yo-Yo Shuriken by [Dr. Ludos](https://drludos.itch.io/yo-yo-shuriken)

![alt text](pvsneslib/docs/images/eyra.gif)

Eyra by [Second Dimension](https://www.second-dimension.com/store/eyra-the-crow-maiden-snes)

![alt text](pvsneslib/docs/images/sydneycod.gif)

Sydney Hunter by [CollectorVision](https://collectorvision.com/store/shop/snes/snes-sydney-hunter-the-caverns-of-death-pal/)


# Special thanks #

-RetroAntho (https://github.com/RetroAntho) for his great help to move wla-dx to last version and also for all compilation optimizations in Makefile, snes_rules and, at least, for keeping me motivated to update PVSnesLib ;)  
-Ulrich Hecht for SNES C SDK: http://code.google.com/p/snes-sdk/  
-Byuu for bass - assembler with SPC700 support: http://byuu.org/programming/  
-Mic_ for 816-tcc, sixpack, optimore, constify: http://jiggawatt.org/badc0de/sixpack/ and http://jiggawatt.org/optimore-816r2.zip  
-Neviksti for pcx2snes  
-Shiru for snesbmp idea & sound tools: http://shiru.untergrund.net/  
-Mukunda for smconv tool: http://snes.mukunda.com/  
-RedBug for constify tcc bug fix and tips for Linux and Docker  
-mills32 (https://github.com/mills32) for his mode7 3D example  
-n_Arno for his help on Linux version (https://github.com/nArnoSNES/)  
-kobenairb for python & docker optimizations  
  
Thanks !

Commit message:

New information related to docker

readme.md, after:

# A library to code in C or ASM for the Nintendo SNES #

[PVSneslib V4.0.2 (February,02,2023) ](http://www.portabledev.com/jeux/supernes/pvsneslib/)

**PVSnesLib** (**P**rogrammer **V**aluable **Snes** **Lib**rary) is an open and free library to develop programs for the Nintendo SNES using the C programming language.

Created initially for the 20th birthday of the Nintendo SNES (2012) and based on Ulrich Hecht [SDK](http://code.google.com/p/snes-sdk/), it has been evolved a lot and is now mainly coded in assembler for performances reasons. It is also directly usable in asm for those who do not want to use C language but without rewriting everything from scratch.

It contains a snes-sdk compiler / linker and a library (sources included) which offer facilities to use backgrounds / sprites / pads / music & sound on the Nintendo SNES system.
It also contains examples which demonstrate how to use the functions in the library.

# Installation #
<a href="https://github.com/alekmaul/pvsneslib/releases/download/4.0.2/Windows-x32-402-release.zip"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/release-windows32-green?style=flat&logo=github" alt="PVSNESLIB Windows32 Release"></a>
<a href="https://github.com/alekmaul/pvsneslib/releases/download/4.0.2/Linux-x64-402-release.zip"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/release-linux-orange?style=flat&logo=github" alt="PVSNESLIB Linux32 Release"></a>

To install the library, please download the latest [release](https://github.com/alekmaul/pvsneslib/releases/latest) or with the link below and follow instructions on the [Wiki pages](https://github.com/alekmaul/pvsneslib/wiki).

You can also see the [documentation](https://alekmaul.github.io/pvsneslib/) generated from sources.

# Visual Studio Code #

You can find a Visual Studio Code template in the [vscode-template](https://github.com/alekmaul/pvsneslib/tree/master/vscode-template) folder to help PVSnesLib integration with it.

# Build status #

[![PVSNESLIB Build and Package](https://github.com/alekmaul/pvsneslib/actions/workflows/pvsneslib_build_package.yml/badge.svg?branch=develop)](https://github.com/alekmaul/pvsneslib/actions/workflows/pvsneslib_build_package.yml)

You can find with the link below the last stable builds of PVSnesLib. They are development builds, you can have bugs not yet resolved with them.

# Dependencies #

PVSnesLib works on Windows and Linux systems.
Due to technical constraints, it is available for now on 32 bits system only.
For people who cannot work with this constraint, you can build your docker image by following instructions available in the docker folder.

To use it, you will need at least :

- a unix-like environment like msys if you work on Windows
- python 3 installed and available in your path environment variable (accessible with the **python** command)

If you want to compile the whole project, please see [this wiki page](https://github.com/alekmaul/pvsneslib/wiki/Compiling-from-sources) to get all required dependencies.

# Contribution #

[GitHub project](https://github.com/alekmaul/pvsneslib)

To discuss about the library, your project or to request help, join us on [Discord](https://discord.gg/DzEFnhB).

PVSneslib and affiliated tools are distributed under the MIT license (see pvsneslib_license.txt file).

# Support PVSneslib #

PVSneslib is free but you can donate to support its development:<br>
[![Paypal](https://www.paypalobjects.com/fr_FR/FR/i/btn/x-click-but04.gif)](https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&hosted_button_id=Y5USKF23DQVLC)

# Powered by PVSneslib #

These projects are based on PVSnesLib _(non-exhaustive list)_:

![alt text](pvsneslib/docs/images/yoyoshuriken.gif)

Yo-Yo Shuriken by [Dr. Ludos](https://drludos.itch.io/yo-yo-shuriken)

![alt text](pvsneslib/docs/images/eyra.gif)

Eyra by [Second Dimension](https://www.second-dimension.com/store/eyra-the-crow-maiden-snes)

![alt text](pvsneslib/docs/images/sydneycod.gif)

Sydney Hunter by [CollectorVision](https://collectorvision.com/store/shop/snes/snes-sydney-hunter-the-caverns-of-death-pal/)


# Special thanks #

-RetroAntho (https://github.com/RetroAntho) for his great help to move wla-dx to last version and also for all compilation optimizations in Makefile, snes_rules and, at least, for keeping me motivated to update PVSnesLib ;)  
-Ulrich Hecht for SNES C SDK: http://code.google.com/p/snes-sdk/  
-Byuu for bass - assembler with SPC700 support: http://byuu.org/programming/  
-Mic_ for 816-tcc, sixpack, optimore, constify: http://jiggawatt.org/badc0de/sixpack/ and http://jiggawatt.org/optimore-816r2.zip  
-Neviksti for pcx2snes  
-Shiru for snesbmp idea & sound tools: http://shiru.untergrund.net/  
-Mukunda for smconv tool: http://snes.mukunda.com/  
-RedBug for constify tcc bug fix and tips for Linux and Docker  
-mills32 (https://github.com/mills32) for his mode7 3D example  
-n_Arno for his help on Linux version (https://github.com/nArnoSNES/)  
-kobenairb for python & docker optimizations  
  
Thanks !
