wiki/Input-and-Output.md, before:

Output functions explained in this tutorial are only functions for _text displaying_. Another tutorial will be done for _backgrounds_.  
We will also talk about input which are, well only _SNES joypads_ and _multitaps_.

## Output

The output system is only available for **BG_MODE1**. If you need it in other mode, you need to develop it.

It is managed via a **map of 32x32 characters**. The console functions are used to display text.

When you want to display a text, you must specify the **x,y coordinates** of the text in this map. 

You've got two ways to display text on screen :  
  * using the default map shipped with PVSnesLib (text are sent to display during Vblank)
  * using your own map and send it to screen after waiting for vblank with the DMA functions.
 
### Init text displaying
 
The first thing to use the display system is to init the console with the background that will handle the text, and of course, the font to use.  
We will see later how to customize the font. PVSneslib is shipped with a default font named pvsneslibfont.bmp. Just take a look at it to know how characters are.   

To init display system, just call **consoleInitText(0,0, &snesfont, &snespalfont)**
where :  
  * the first parameter is the background that will handle the text (0..2)
  * the second one is the palette number (0..16)
  * the third one is the address of graphics for font converted with gfx4snes
  * the last one is the address of palette for font converted with gfx4snes

``` 
.. Somewhere where you initialized variables ...
extern char snesfont;

//---------------------------------------------------------------------------------

.. somewhere in the beginning of your main code ...

    // Initialize SNES 
    consoleInit();
    
    // Initialize text console with our font
    consoleInitText(0, 0, &snesfont,&snespalfont);
``` 

You can also change the text graphics and map VRAM address by using the functions:
```
    consoleSetTextVramBGAdr(background graphic address);
    consoleSetTextVramAdr(background map address);
    consoleSetTextOffset(offset of text in background map address);
```

here is the **hello_world** example of new vram entries:

```
    // Initialize text console with our font
    consoleSetTextVramBGAdr(0x6800);
    consoleSetTextVramAdr(0x3000);
    consoleSetTextOffset(0x0100);
    consoleInitText(0, 16 * 2, &tilfont, &palfont);
```

### Put text on screen
  
This is done with the **consoleDrawText** function, just call it with text coordinates and text value.
For example **consoleDrawText(5,10,"hello world")** to display at column **5**, row **10** the text **hello world **.   

Also, you can format the string to display with generic format options :  

For example, **%d** is used to display integer like **consoleDrawText(1,1,"X=%d",varx)** that will display **X=10** if varx equals 10.  

To display a string, you must use **%s** and **%c** for a char.  
For example :  
```
char name[32];

  strcpy(name,"PVSneslib");
  consoleDrawText(1,1,"Name of lib=%s",name);
```

Just take a look at [standard printf options](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Printf_format_string) of C language to know exactly what you can do.  

### Changing color

You can use only two colors, the text and background color with the **consoleSetTextCol** function.
But _only text color is important_.

Color is designed with the Red, Green and Blue parameters.

![colors](http://www.portabledev.com/wp-content/uploads/2018/02/200px-additivecolor.svg_.png)

Each parameter must be a number between **0 and 31**. And you must call function **RGB15** to have the final correct color.  
So, **RGB15(0,0,0)** is the black color and **RGB15(31,31,31)** is the white color.  
For example, to use a red text color with black background, just put :  
```
consoleSetTextCol(RGB15(31,0,0), RGB15(0,0,0));
```

### Custom font

Basically, a custom font is a tiled background, each tile representing a specific character. 
Here is a basic custom font layout:

![font](http://www.portabledev.com/wp-content/uploads/2018/02/pvsneslibfont.png)

The layout is very important, each character must be 8x8 pixels and only from ascii code 32 to 127.  
You also have only two colors, the background color (which is the transparent color) and the font color.  
We are not going to use the palette for the text font, but you must know that the background color must be the first color (entry #0) and the text color the next one (entry #1 of palette).  

For a more accurate editing, I suggest you to display a grid (8×8 pixels) in your favourite graphics editor, like this (zoomed):  
 
![font1](http://www.portabledev.com/wp-content/uploads/2018/02/pvsneslibfont_1.png)

One more thing to know about this layout, it must be compiled with the "non optimized" **-R** flag of gfx4snes (to avoid lost of characters).  

```
pvsneslibfont.pic: pvsneslibfont.bmp
	@echo convert font with no tile reduction ... $(notdir $@)
	$(GFXCONV) -u 16 -s 8 -o 2 -e 1 -R -m -t bmp -i $<
```

## Input

Currently, the only input managed with _PVSneslib_ is the **SNES joypad**.  
```
    __--L--_________________--R--__           Button Colors:
   /    _                          \   PAL and Japan    North America
  |   _| |_                  (X)    |   X = Blue         X = Gray
  |  |_   _|  SLCT STRT   (Y)   (A) |   Y = Green        Y = Gray
  |    |_|                   (B)    |   A = Red          A = Purple
   \_________.-----------._________/    B = Yellow       B = Purple
```

_PVSnesLib_ can handle the **two** SNES pads, which are identified with number **0** or **1**.  
 
To get the values for internal pad management, you must call the scanPads function. It will update the state for the two pads.  

Then, let's used the **padsCurrent** function with the padnumber you want to check. The default one is with number 0.  

For example, use a short type variable to do that :  
```
short pad0;
pad0 = padsCurrent(0);
```

To test is a specific button is pressed, just use the corresponding name :  
```
  KEY_A      for pad A button.  
  KEY_B      for pad B button.  
  KEY_X      for pad X button.  
  KEY_Y      for pad Y button.  
  KEY_SELECT for pad SELECT button.  
  KEY_START  for pad START button.  
  KEY_RIGHT  for pad RIGHT button.  
  KEY_LEFT   for pad LEFT button.  
  KEY_DOWN   for pad DOWN button.  
  KEY_UP     for pad UP button.  
  KEY_R      for Right shoulder button.  
  KEY_L      for Left shoulder button.  
```

so, you can use **if (pad0 & KEY_A)** to know if button A is pressed or **if (pad0 & (KEY_A | KEY_X))** to know if button A **or** button X are pressed. Notice that we used the **|** operator to add different buttons, not the **&** operator, this is because **|** is like the adding operation.  

Also, **if ( (pad0 & KEY_A) && (pad0 & KEY_X) )** (or **if ( (pad0 & (KEY_A | KEY_X) == (KEY_A | KEY_X) )**) is used to know if button A **and** button X are pressed.   

At least, the pad is refresh during VBL (thanks to VBlank function), so it is no more needed to use **scanPads** function to refresh pad values.  


```
     // Get current #0 pad
     pad0 = padsCurrent(0);
		
     // Update display with current pad
     if (pad0 & KEY_A) {
       consoleDrawText(12,10,"A PRESSED");
     }
```

Commit message:

chore(*): add chapter for mouse and superscope

wiki/Input-and-Output.md, after:

Output functions explained in this tutorial are only functions for _text displaying_. Another tutorial will be done for _backgrounds_.  
We will also talk about input which are, well only _SNES joypads_ and _multitaps_.

## Output

The output system is only available for **BG_MODE1**. If you need it in other mode, you need to develop it.

It is managed via a **map of 32x32 characters**. The console functions are used to display text.

When you want to display a text, you must specify the **x,y coordinates** of the text in this map. 

You've got two ways to display text on screen :  
  * using the default map shipped with PVSnesLib (text are sent to display during Vblank)
  * using your own map and send it to screen after waiting for vblank with the DMA functions.
 
### Init text displaying
 
The first thing to use the display system is to init the console with the background that will handle the text, and of course, the font to use.  
We will see later how to customize the font. PVSneslib is shipped with a default font named pvsneslibfont.bmp. Just take a look at it to know how characters are.   

To init display system, just call **consoleInitText(0,0, &snesfont, &snespalfont)**
where :  
  * the first parameter is the background that will handle the text (0..2)
  * the second one is the palette number (0..16)
  * the third one is the address of graphics for font converted with gfx4snes
  * the last one is the address of palette for font converted with gfx4snes

``` 
.. Somewhere where you initialized variables ...
extern char snesfont;

//---------------------------------------------------------------------------------

.. somewhere in the beginning of your main code ...

    // Initialize SNES 
    consoleInit();
    
    // Initialize text console with our font
    consoleInitText(0, 0, &snesfont,&snespalfont);
``` 

You can also change the text graphics and map VRAM address by using the functions:
```
    consoleSetTextVramBGAdr(background graphic address);
    consoleSetTextVramAdr(background map address);
    consoleSetTextOffset(offset of text in background map address);
```

here is the **hello_world** example of new vram entries:

```
    // Initialize text console with our font
    consoleSetTextVramBGAdr(0x6800);
    consoleSetTextVramAdr(0x3000);
    consoleSetTextOffset(0x0100);
    consoleInitText(0, 16 * 2, &tilfont, &palfont);
```

### Put text on screen
  
This is done with the **consoleDrawText** function, just call it with text coordinates and text value.
For example **consoleDrawText(5,10,"hello world")** to display at column **5**, row **10** the text **hello world **.   

Also, you can format the string to display with generic format options :  

For example, **%d** is used to display integer like **consoleDrawText(1,1,"X=%d",varx)** that will display **X=10** if varx equals 10.  

To display a string, you must use **%s** and **%c** for a char.  
For example :  
```
char name[32];

  strcpy(name,"PVSneslib");
  consoleDrawText(1,1,"Name of lib=%s",name);
```

Just take a look at [standard printf options](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Printf_format_string) of C language to know exactly what you can do.  

### Changing color

You can use only two colors, the text and background color with the **consoleSetTextCol** function.
But _only text color is important_.

Color is designed with the Red, Green and Blue parameters.

![colors](http://www.portabledev.com/wp-content/uploads/2018/02/200px-additivecolor.svg_.png)

Each parameter must be a number between **0 and 31**. And you must call function **RGB15** to have the final correct color.  
So, **RGB15(0,0,0)** is the black color and **RGB15(31,31,31)** is the white color.  
For example, to use a red text color with black background, just put :  
```
consoleSetTextCol(RGB15(31,0,0), RGB15(0,0,0));
```

### Custom font

Basically, a custom font is a tiled background, each tile representing a specific character. 
Here is a basic custom font layout:

![font](http://www.portabledev.com/wp-content/uploads/2018/02/pvsneslibfont.png)

The layout is very important, each character must be 8x8 pixels and only from ascii code 32 to 127.  
You also have only two colors, the background color (which is the transparent color) and the font color.  
We are not going to use the palette for the text font, but you must know that the background color must be the first color (entry #0) and the text color the next one (entry #1 of palette).  

For a more accurate editing, I suggest you to display a grid (8×8 pixels) in your favourite graphics editor, like this (zoomed):  
 
![font1](http://www.portabledev.com/wp-content/uploads/2018/02/pvsneslibfont_1.png)

One more thing to know about this layout, it must be compiled with the "non optimized" **-R** flag of gfx4snes (to avoid lost of characters).  

```
pvsneslibfont.pic: pvsneslibfont.bmp
	@echo convert font with no tile reduction ... $(notdir $@)
	$(GFXCONV) -u 16 -s 8 -o 2 -e 1 -R -m -t bmp -i $<
```

## Input

 _PVSneslib_ is able to manage the **SNES joypad**, the **mouse" and the "**SuperScope**.  

### Joypad

```
    __--L--_________________--R--__           Button Colors:
   /    _                          \   PAL and Japan    North America
  |   _| |_                  (X)    |   X = Blue         X = Gray
  |  |_   _|  SLCT STRT   (Y)   (A) |   Y = Green        Y = Gray
  |    |_|                   (B)    |   A = Red          A = Purple
   \_________.-----------._________/    B = Yellow       B = Purple
```

_PVSnesLib_ can handle the **two** SNES pads, which are identified with number **0** or **1**.  
 
To get the values for internal pad management, you must call the scanPads function. It will update the state for the two pads.  

Then, let's used the **padsCurrent** function with the padnumber you want to check. The default one is with number 0.  

For example, use a short type variable to do that :  
```
short pad0;
pad0 = padsCurrent(0);
```

To test is a specific button is pressed, just use the corresponding name :  
```
  KEY_A      for pad A button.  
  KEY_B      for pad B button.  
  KEY_X      for pad X button.  
  KEY_Y      for pad Y button.  
  KEY_SELECT for pad SELECT button.  
  KEY_START  for pad START button.  
  KEY_RIGHT  for pad RIGHT button.  
  KEY_LEFT   for pad LEFT button.  
  KEY_DOWN   for pad DOWN button.  
  KEY_UP     for pad UP button.  
  KEY_R      for Right shoulder button.  
  KEY_L      for Left shoulder button.  
```

so, you can use **if (pad0 & KEY_A)** to know if button A is pressed or **if (pad0 & (KEY_A | KEY_X))** to know if button A **or** button X are pressed. Notice that we used the **|** operator to add different buttons, not the **&** operator, this is because **|** is like the adding operation.  

Also, **if ( (pad0 & KEY_A) && (pad0 & KEY_X) )** (or **if ( (pad0 & (KEY_A | KEY_X) == (KEY_A | KEY_X) )**) is used to know if button A **and** button X are pressed.   

At least, the pad is refresh during VBL (thanks to VBlank function), so it is no more needed to use **scanPads** function to refresh pad values.  


```
     // Get current #0 pad
     pad0 = padsCurrent(0);
		
     // Update display with current pad
     if (pad0 & KEY_A) {
       consoleDrawText(12,10,"A PRESSED");
     }
```

### Mouse  

** WORK IN PROGRESS **  


### SuperScope  

** WORK IN PROGRESS **
